my earlier video about libertarianism
was not aimed at or intended for an
audience of libertarians
and uh this is obvious even from the
title the
title suggests this is a video for
non-libertarians and this was said in
the opening
how to deal with how to handle
libertarians when these people make your
life miserable
by trying to insist on their petty set
of principles
that they think is much more important
than the entire historical experience of
the world because
the historical experience of the world
already has refuted their ridiculous
principles
ten thousand times over sorry to briefly
digress
the notion that education for the poor
will be provided by the free market
without any government
regulation any taxpayer involvement
it's been disproven in pretty much every
society in the world
we don't have to go back that far in
recorded history whether it's in north
america western europe or asia
to go back to a time we have
well-documented examples of how society
functioned how people struggled
to attain basic literacy in a society
without
the public provision of education
without taxpayer involvement in
providing education especially
for the poor but in pre-modern times if
you go back and look
uh medieval europe or whatever a
pre-modern japan
the quality and availability of
education even for the wealthiest
of the aristocratic elite was abysmally
poor
the level of education was was terrible
throughout society there is very good
reason why all over the world step by
step
democracies and even kingdoms
really decided to step up and have uh
government involved in providing
education
especially for the poor but not only to
benefit the poor to benefit society as
whole
there is very good reason why any senior
rational person would look at that
historical experience and come to the
conclusion that
no a libertarian society or an anarchist
society
would not be superior to a welfare state
democracy in providing education for the
rich or the poor that it would be
inferior
and these ideologies live in a constant
sense this constant state
of discomfort in dealing with the
incongruous contrast between the
extravagant claims they make about the
future and what the implications of
those claims would be
if true were we to apply them in a fair
and open minded way to the past
but the point of the video was not to
start a debate
with libertarians or anarchists the
point of the video was just to say to
you
these things are not worth debating
they're not nobody thinks this is worth
debating
this is a tiny fringe political group
that clings to principles that are so
absurd i said it briefly in that video
that are so absurd that the vast
majority of people will just never
sit down with them and talk through the
ridiculousness of the notion
that um poor people in remote and rural
areas would be better off
if the rich just gave up paying taxes if
the rich could just
spend more of that money on themselves
and not have to pay taxes
that would go to benefit the poor by
providing them with access to school
access to hospitals access to roads
electricity running water
sewage treatment etc that would just be
this massive
improvement for society that's what
libertarians and antarctica capitalists
are arguing and to some extent these
related ideologies like
minarchism all share in the same set of
values
now these debates um look
real debates that are going on right now
in a big way what is the future of china
supposed to be currently you know
communist china
with its strange hybrid mix of uh you
know
socialist and capitalist elements um
what is the future of china be do you
think anyone
is is seriously discussing this absolute
nonsense do you think anyone is
proposing that china would be better off
in the future if they
didn't have public education if poor
people in china
could not have free access to school and
in some cases free access to university
by the way i myself was
a teacher recently in a program that was
provided for free to students not all
university programs are free in china
but some are
and thus provide a step up for poor
people does anyone
on earth aside from ideologues of this
laughable
friend genealogy does anyone think that
the way forward for china
is to embrace one of these fad
libertarian
ideologies abolish
the provision of of education for the
poor
that would be getting rid of one of the
only good things china has going for it
one of the
one of the few things it has that that's
making a bad situation
better you know politically
socioeconomically and otherwise
is anyone proposing that the future of
syria or the future of afghanistan would
be improved
if the government just disentangled
itself from education
if the government just stepped back and
said hey the free market
anarcho-capitalism and libertarian
forces the free market
can take care of sewage treatment
the provision of roads the provision of
education the provision of electricity
in afghanistan and in syria right now
let alone
china a situation with more stability
more centralized government control
is anyone debating this anyone at the
united nations
anyone um usaid anyone at any level
of any charitable organization do you do
you even think there are charities
because i mean charities can be run by
any crackpot
who manages to get a few tens of
thousands of dollars in donations do you
think there are humanitarian agencies on
the ground
in afghanistan looking around saying wow
you know
you know what would improve this
situation if we got rid of
the little bits and pieces of the
welfare state that are here if these
people went back to
more interco capitalist free market
unregulated conditions
you know what would improve things here
if the government stopped
trying to compete with the taliban in
the provision of education to the poor
when you talk about separating
government
from provision of education or provision
of sewage treatment as
i said earlier provision of roads who do
you think
steps in and takes over takes over as i
said in my earlier video
large organizations that resemble a
government
in a catholic country it may be the
catholic church in afghanistan
surprise surprise it will be the taliban
or other muslim fundamentalist
organizations
that guess what collect taxation
like the tithe tithe is a uniquely
christian word you can look it up it's
not part of normal modern english
like collecting tithes uh in the
catholic church
in islam they collect zakat they collect
donations they collect
percentage of people's income and then
muslim organizations again going back to
the dark ages
can use that uh indeed to operate things
like schools and other institutions in
in the public interest guess what a
secular
democratic government does a much better
job
providing education about even things
like math
math and science than the taliban are
going to do
let alone if you get into human
reproduction uh sexuality politics
getting things that are really
challenging to the religion and it's in
its world view
yeah there's actually a huge fundamental
advantage
it's no surprise to anyone who studied
history to stepping out of the dark ages
stepping out of the horrible reality of
the middle ages into the modern era
modernity being in very large part
defined by
centralized provision of government
services
government services paid for by taxation
so look
my point is again nobody is going to
have this
debate with you i'm not going to i have
no interest
in debating this with anarchists and
libertarians it's an
absolute dead end whereas i'm very
interested in debating what is the
future of china
what is the future of various places
i've done research on to to varying
extents
and i'd like to do more research on so
you know i have a reply here in the
comments section
go over this really quickly because i
think the only thing that needs to be
said in response to this is is just
restating the very basic principle
which most people won't bother to do if
they're talking to a libertarian
face-to-face or they're talking to an
anxious
face yes i support the concept of
taxation
the vast majority of human beings not
just in democratic societies
but in dictatorial societies support the
concept of taxation you guys need to
look in the mirror and realize that all
your talk about taxation being theft
and taxation being a crime and taxation
being violence
is just laughable even in the context of
communist china
that yes the vast majority of people do
believe in the principle and believe in
the practice and they can see the
positive outcomes
they believe that paying taxes so that
roads and sewage treatment and education
are provided not to mention
uh the military and all the other things
the government does they think that is a
good thing they fundamentally do think
that rich people should pay taxes for
benefits that the rich may not
experience themselves
that are experienced by the poor or
experienced by society at large this is
not
an ongoing debate in 2018 this is a
fringe
laughable internet subculture and you
guys feel like you're a big deal
but hey why do you think you don't have
a seat at the table at the united
nations
why do you think in the midst of all the
extreme ideologies competing for votes
right now in europe
or in north america or in this in the
sudan
or afghanistan or china why do you think
you guys don't have a voice it's because
from the
perspective of the vast majority of
people even in authoritarian societies
let alone
liberal western democracies you are
a joke so this comment opens by saying
just because an anarcho-capitalist is
against the government doing something
does not mean they were against that
thing being done period so i already
replied this in the first video
oh so you think the world would be a
better place if walmart
provided education you think the world
would be a better place if the taliban
provided education and the catholic
church provided education with
no competition from
government taxpayer-funded services
that's what you think you think that in
afghanistan
you think that afghanistan will be
better off without free education for
the poor provided by the government
taxpayers you think that poor people
on a reservation first nations
reservation indigenous people's
reservation like a navajo
reservation united states you think
those people would be better off if the
u.s government
never provides them with free education
if they just had to look for education
from
for-profit corporations religious groups
like the catholics and muslim
fundamentalists you think that would be
a better world
well nobody else thinks that nobody else
looks around at that alternative and
sees that
as an improvement so that was already
answered in the first video and i'm
being redundant
and answering again now there is nothing
here to debate
there's no discourse here for anyone to
join in there are no
possible positive outcomes to talking
about this stuff and that's why the vast
majority of people
when they meet you guys face to face
they just smirk
and walk over to the punch bowl or talk
to somebody else at the party
this conversation is not worth having
all right and again when you guys try to
reassure us when you try to reassure the
vast majority of the population
that walmart without government
regulation without taxpayer incentive
without any kind of government
just the free market whether it's called
anarcho-capitalism or libertarianism
that walmart is going to do a wonderful
job providing
education for poor people who can't
afford to pay for that education
or that the catholic church or muslim
fundamentalists are going to do it
we can look back at centuries and
centuries of well-documented world
history
in many cultures and say that is just
not true in point of fact i i know
you guys have come up with ludicrous
bend over backward arguments
for why you know the problem is the
problem is this unfair competition
provided by taxpayers
and that the free market would just step
up and provide this stuff well you why
don't you even look around the world
right now at disaster areas where normal
government has fallen apart
and see why you why you don't have
empirical evidence
of the forces of the free market
stepping forth and providing good
education
not for the rich but for the poor
look in the mirror and ask yourself if
you were on the ground doing
humanitarian work in syria right now i
don't know why you're not
if you actually went out in the real
world and got some practical experience
whether in syria or afghanistan
or in china china being a relatively
orderly society
do you think your own ideology would
survive that practical hands-on
experience of trying to help people
and admitting to yourself what kind of
government or non-government
agencies and assistance would help them
i do not think it would survive at all
anyway so the claim that corporations
can just step
in and seamlessly take over these
functions once government steps out
there is plenty of evidence of the
contrary whether you are left-wing
right-wing
so this commenter continues quote the
problem is with forcing everybody for
paid to a thing
that they may not agree with so this is
taxation he means
with the threat of violence possibly up
to and including death right
the only thing i have to say back to
this and again the vast majority of
people who care about politics agree
across the whole spectrum left right up
down
the vast majority of human beings are
pro-taxation the vast majority of human
beings
do not believe as you believe that
taxation is theft
the vast majority of human beings do not
think it is immoral
to coerce a rich person to pay
taxes to benefit a poor person on the
contrary
the majority of people who care about
politics especially since
thomas moore's utopia a genuinely
medieval
text of political philosophy by the way
since thomas more's utopia
the vast majority of people who've cared
about politics have seen
taxation the centralization of
government power
with taxation is a tremendous step
forward
from for society in every way including
yes simple things like the provision of
roads
education water treatment etc so um
this is part of what i said back to him
i wrote back in my reply the proposition
i'm defending in this video is precisely
that it's indeed
morally good to compel you to pay for
sewage treatment
and to punish you even with the threat
of violence for illegally dumping your
sewage into a river or a lake
thus possibly poisoning others or at
least subverting the aforementioned
sewage laws so again i don't care
you can describe taxation as theft you
can describe this in these bombastic
terms
you can describe the enforcement of
sewage treatment laws and regulations
as some kind of terrible oppression that
is precisely what i am in favor of and
the vast majority of people even though
they haven't examined it
they are in favor of that too and the
suggestion that society would
prog progress and not regress but
getting rid of those things
is laughable to the vast majority of
people especially people who care about
politics
so i i say openly i expressly support
the use of coercion
on both ends of that equation i believe
in coercion to try to get donald trump
to pay his taxes
we've recently just had an expose about
the extent which donald trump and his
father
have avoided or minimized paying taxes i
expressly support the use of coercion
and law enforcement
to prevent people and prevent companies
from polluting
rivers with sewage and and what have you
i do not see any moral problem with that
and furthermore
i want that role to be taken on
by a democratic publicly accountable
government under rule of law
the rule of law plebiscite democracy
public participation
transparency and a rotating roster of
people members of the public at large
able to
inspect and participate and govern those
agencies that's what i want i don't want
walmart to be in charge of sewage
treatment i don't want the catholic
church i don't want an irresponsible
religious authority
like muslim fundamentalists taking over
sewage treatment i
actively prefer it to be the government
whether or not you use terms like
coercion whether or not you refer to
uh taxation of staff those uh hyperbolic
descriptions are of absolutely no
interest to me they don't change my
perspective in any way
and this has no impact with the vast
majority of people again who just care
about politics
um i say in closing that comment what is
more important for you to learn from the
video is this
most people will never bother to explain
this to you as i've done in this video
and as i'm briefly adam writing in this
comment the basic
concept of taxation and law enforcement
for example for sewage treatment
uh is so basic that nobody can be
bothered to talk it through with a tiny
laughable fringe minority
that rejects the premise um
so
again he then writes back with the
example of
he is not he he concedes he is not
against sewage treatment well in reality
you are because you're against the only
form and system of sewage treatment that
has ever
worked in the history of the world okay
look at the history of sewage stream why
didn't it happen in the dark ages in
medieval england
what exactly was the historical process
that created sewage treatment as we have
it today
it was exactly the process of
centralized taxation-based governments
through coercion and legislation
i'm sorry it's just not true back in the
14th century this didn't happen
neither in europe nor in asia et cetera
etc etc um
anyway sorry so you say you're not
against sewage treatment but you are
actually opposed to
the only example and the only model of
working sewage treatment
that has ever been proven to work in
this to the world and has recurred
separately
in different societies all over the
world but there is no
free market anarchist model of sewage
treatment that's ever worked
and again in societies where due to war
or earthquake or whatever where the
government falls apart and stops
operating where people do revert to
something more like a free market
anarchy situation
one of the first things that falls apart
is exactly the provision of sewage
treatment it's not the case that the
free market steps forward to provide
those things
and the free market does step forward
and provide other things
no one could claim that the free market
is 100 non-functional
in the absence of the state there are
other things that it's good enough at
doing
back in 14th century europe everybody
had access to beer
but nobody had access to clean drinking
water really think about that
why because the free market is very good
at packaging and marketing a product
like beer
medieval i was reading even 17th century
europe people were drinking beer for
breakfast
because beer wouldn't poison you in
italy there were factories where they
drank wine
from the moment the factory opened at
8am they'd drink wine
all day because they could get a hold of
alcoholic beverages like wine and beer
on the free market
that were not poisonous that we're not
going to give them water-borne illnesses
and it was actually incredibly difficult
for them living in urban conditions in a
pre-modern society
without this kind of welfare state it
was very difficult for them to get
drinking water
that wasn't carrying disease so yeah you
know i mean
this is historical reality some things
the free market provides
well especially when it's a packaged
for-profit product
and some things whether it's education
prisons
sewage treatment or roads are really a
very big problem for the free market to
provide and that's why all over the
world again and again
centralization of taxation has solved
these problems in the way that it has
um so he says he is morally opposed
from he is morally opposed to taxing
a hundred percent of people to pay for
sewage treatment
okay and he he refers to taxing as
stealing
right okay he asks should someone
who lives off the grid and uses a
composting toilet be taxed
he says stolen from should they be taxed
with the threat of violence if he
doesn't pay
in order to treat sewage now again all i
have to say back to this basically is
yes yes i absolutely believe that
100 of people should pay taxes to
support sewage treatment if you're so
poor that you can't pay taxes again all
western liberal democracies
as you know the burden of taxation is
unwealthy people not on poor people
issue of you know progressive taxation
etc but
this is irrelevant these kinds of
details sure in principle even the
beggars should pay a few pennies a year
to support the sewage system
uh i'm entirely in favor for that and
the millionaires should pay
thousands of dollars to support it so i
quote back what he says in our reply
quote should someone who lives off-grid
and uses a composting toilet be taxed
with the threat of violence if he
doesn't pay his taxes to treat
sewage my answer is yes
parallel question one should a wealthy
person
who only uses private transportation be
taxed to provide
public transportation to benefit poor
people answer
yes it doesn't matter that you're never
going to use the bus
or maybe you're so rich you're never
going to use the road that you
that you personally will never use these
things yes i absolutely
support the use of taxation to tax
wealthy people
to provide roads and buses for poor
people
again not debated go to afghanistan go
to syria
go to china do humanitarian work
anywhere do humanitarian work wherever
you're from
do humanitarian work in rural ontario
and first nations reservations and
communities and
poverty-stricken hopeless awful
indigenous people's uh reservations and
you look around and you tell me you know
what would make this better
if we got rid of the buses and the roads
and the public transportation
is that really what you're gonna include
you know make this better if we got rid
of
government provided health care and
access to education for these people so
they had
nothing if you even do humanitarian work
within canada within ontario
go to atawapascat at wapascat as a first
nations reservation
it's been in the news for a lot of its
problems it's had problems with
sewage treatment too as i recall
go and take a look at this human reality
and you tell me
why it is you think that less support
from taxpayers that taxing the rich to
benefit the poor
why it is you think that would be an
improvement and wouldn't be devastating
for these people in any of these kind
it's laughable the political philosophy
your support you're supporting is just
laughable and it is laughed out of the
room in any negotiations but any real
world situation okay
um so but no i don't think there's
anything immoral
about donald trump paying for poor
people to ride the bus
even though donald trump may never ride
the bus himself i don't think there's
anything immoral about donald trump
paying taxes
so that poor children on a navajo
reservation or a cree reservation
can have access to education when donald
trump's own children
will never go to a poor people's school
in a remote ruler of that no
quite the contrary i see no problem with
that and neither did thomas more in
writing his utopia
okay um so yeah my parallel question two
is
should a wealthy white person be taxed
to provide
schools for poor navajo people on remote
reservations
where that white person's children will
never benefit from the education
themselves
my answer is yes okay none of this is
debated in the real world
in the real world we're debating the
future of china syria and the usa
but nobody is engaged in debating these
laughable
fringe issues that you clear to pardon
me these laughable french issues that
you cling to
so sincerely okay guys there are things
i care about passionately that are
fringe that almost nobody else cares
about okay
and i am used to i am accustomed to
explaining to people
why they matter or on a purely human
individual level why they matter to me
it's obvious that democracy in cambodia
is never going to be front page news
it's never going to be a major headline
it's never going to be something the
public in canada
takes seriously or cares about frankly i
mean right now there's a little bit of
interest
the future of democracy in china it's
amazing to me
how little people care about this the
concept that chinese people should
actually elect their government instead
of having a dictatorship uh it's amazing
to me
how fringe the whole question of
democracy in athens uh you know the
legacy of a major author like
aristotle it's amazing to me how fringe
even major major political philosophy
questions like that in history
it's amazing to me but i'm able to sit
down in a detached manner or give an
account
of why these issues matter to me and
what kind of
positive outcome uh the debates i'm
engaged in
the debates i'm inviting others to
engage in what kind of positive outcome
they could have in the real world okay
and that is what
you also have to be willing to do with
your political philosophy
whether it's libertarianism or veganism
democracy or otherwise whatever the set
of ideas
are that you're advancing you have to be
able to give
an honest and humble account from the
fringes
that takes account of why it is that
you're on the fringes
in the first place okay and
with that attitude with that humble
attitude mind present to us
what is the positive difference you can
make because guys guess what
politics ultimately is about helping
people
if there's nothing i can say or do to
help
the people of cambodia to help the
people of afghanistan
to help the people of china or to help
the people of rural ontario
that i actually don't have a political
platform to stand on
and the mode of discussion that
anarchists and libertarians
tend to engage in is not helpful
it is purely destructive and they carry
on within their own intellectual echo
chamber
be with basically support from people
who want lower taxes
people who will support any ridiculous
set of notions or excuses
to lower taxes for the rich eliminate
taxes for the rich that's what
minarichism
boils down to to demonize taxation
itself and claim that taxation is theft
well who are you helping
go out in the real world get some
practical hands-on experience
go and look at how education for the
poor works today
look at the history of how it worked in
the 14th century 15th century 16th
century down to the present
take a look at the progress of society
and centralized government that's
produced the institutions we never lie
institutions that i detest institutions
that i'm a critic of
institutions that i do regard as
oppressive to a definite extent i mean
my own experience with government
education is very very negative
but i'm not deluded in thinking that
walmart would do a better job that the
catholic church
would do a better job etc i have no such
delusion as bad as that may be and as
worthy as critique as it may be
you guys are on the lunatic
fringe and you need to stop and
recognize where you are on that fringes
why you're on those fringes
and then put together the case for how
you can make the world a better place
how you can help the people who really
need help
donald trump does not need you
advocating
for lower taxes and you can wrap
yourself in the rebel flag of anarchism
in the rebel flag of libertarianism
invoke the great name of liberty
but the reality is the cause that you
are stumping for
is neither more nor less than lower
taxes for donald trump